
> Highlights of the Swift API Design Guidelines. For all the details and examples, see:
> https://www.swift.org/documentation/api-design-guidelines

## Introduction

Delivering a clear, consistent developer experience when writing Swift code is largely defined by the names and idioms that appear in APIs. These design guidelines explain how to make sure that your code feels like a part of the larger Swift ecosystem.

## Fundamentals

- Clarity at the point of use is your most important goal. Entities such as methods and properties are declared only once but used repeatedly. Design APIs to make those uses clear and concise. When evaluating a design, reading a declaration is seldom sufficient; always examine a use case to make sure it looks clear in context.

- Clarity is more important than brevity. Although Swift code can be compact, it is a non-goal to enable the smallest possible code with the fewest characters. Brevity in Swift code, where it occurs, is a side-effect of the strong type system and features that naturally reduce boilerplate.

- Write a documentation comment for every declaration. Insights gained by writing documentation can have a profound impact on your design, so don’t put it off.

- Use Swift’s dialect of Markdown.

- Begin with a summary that describes the entity being declared. Often, an API can be completely understood from its declaration and its summary.

```swift
/// Returns a "view" of `self` containing the same elements in
/// reverse order.
func reversed() -> ReverseCollection
```

- Focus on the summary; it’s the most important part. Many excellent documentation comments consist of nothing more than a great summary.

- Use a single sentence fragment if possible, ending with a period. Do not use a complete sentence.

- Describe what a function or method does and what it returns, omitting null effects and `Void` returns:

```swift
/// Inserts `newHead` at the beginning of `self`.
mutating func prepend(_ newHead: Int)

/// Returns a `List` containing `head` followed by the elements
/// of `self`.
func prepending(_ head: Element) -> List

/// Removes and returns the first element of `self` if non-empty;
/// returns `nil` otherwise.
mutating func popFirst() -> Element?
```

- Describe what a subscript accesses:

```swift
/// Accesses the `index`th element.
subscript(index: Int) -> Element { get set }
```

- Describe what an initializer creates:

```swift
/// Creates an instance containing `n` repetitions of `x`.
init(count n: Int, repeatedElement x: Element)
```

- For all other declarations, describe what the declared entity is.

```swift
/// A collection that supports equally efficient insertion/removal
/// at any position.
struct List {

  /// The element at the beginning of `self`, or `nil` if self is
  /// empty.
  var first: Element?
  ...
```

- Optionally, continue with one or more paragraphs and bullet items. Paragraphs are separated by blank lines and use complete sentences.

```swift
/// Writes the textual representation of each    ← Summary
/// element of `items` to the standard output.
///                                              ← Blank line
/// The textual representation for each item `x` ← Additional discussion
/// is generated by the expression `String(x)`.
///
/// - Parameter separator: text to be printed    ⎫
///   between items.                             ⎟
/// - Parameter terminator: text to be printed   ⎬ Parameters section
///   at the end.                                ⎟
///                                              ⎭
/// - Note: To print without a trailing          ⎫
///   newline, pass `terminator: ""`             ⎟
///                                              ⎬ Symbol commands
/// - SeeAlso: `CustomDebugStringConvertible`,   ⎟
///   `CustomStringConvertible`, `debugPrint`.   ⎭
public func print(
  _ items: Any..., separator: String = " ", terminator: String = "\n")
```

- Use recognized symbol documentation markup elements to add information beyond the summary, whenever appropriate.

- Know and use recognized bullet items with symbol command syntax.

- Popular development tools such as Xcode give special treatment to bullet items that start with the following keywords: `Attention, Author, Authors, Bug, Complexity, Copyright, Date, Experiment, Important, Invariant, Note, Parameter, Parameters, Postcondition, Precondition, Remark, Requires, Returns, SeeAlso, Since, Throws, ToDo, Version, Warning`

## Naming

### Promote Clear Usage

- Include all the words needed to avoid ambiguity for a person reading code where the name is used.

```swift
extension List {
  public mutating func remove(at position: Index) -> Element
}
employees.remove(at: x)
```

- Omit needless words. Every word in a name should convey salient information at the use site.

```swift
public mutating func remove(_ member: Element) -> Element?

allViews.remove(cancelButton)
```

- Name variables, parameters, and associated types according to their roles, rather than their type constraints.

```swift
var greeting = "Hello"
protocol ViewController {
  associatedtype ContentView : View
}
class ProductionLine {
  func restock(from supplier: WidgetFactory)
}
```

- If an associated type is so tightly bound to its protocol constraint that the protocol name is the role, avoid collision by appending Protocol to the protocol name:

```swift
protocol Sequence {
  associatedtype Iterator : IteratorProtocol
}
protocol IteratorProtocol { ... }
```

- Compensate for weak type information to clarify a parameter’s role.

```swift
func addObserver(_ observer: NSObject, forKeyPath path: String)
grid.addObserver(self, forKeyPath: graphics)
```

### Strive for Fluent Usage

- Prefer method and function names that make use sites form grammatical English phrases.

```swift
x.insert(y, at: z)          “x, insert y at z”
x.subviews(havingColor: y)  “x's subviews having color y”
x.capitalizingNouns()       “x, capitalizing nouns”
```

- It is acceptable for fluency to degrade after the first argument or two when those arguments are not central to the call’s meaning:

```swift
AudioUnit.instantiate(
  with: description,
  options: [.inProcess], completionHandler: stopProgressBar)
```

- Begin names of factory methods with “make”, e.g. x.makeIterator().

- The first argument to initializer and factory methods calls should not form a phrase starting with the base name, e.g. `x.makeWidget(cogCount: 47)`

```swift
let foreground = Color(red: 32, green: 64, blue: 128)
let newPart = factory.makeWidget(gears: 42, spindles: 14)
let ref = Link(target: destination)
```

- Name functions and methods according to their side-effects

- Those without side-effects should read as noun phrases, e.g. `x.distance(to: y)`, `i.successor()`.

- Those with side-effects should read as imperative verb phrases, e.g., `print(x)`, `x.sort()`, `x.append(y)`.

- Name Mutating/nonmutating method pairs consistently. A mutating method will often have a nonmutating variant with similar semantics, but that returns a new value rather than updating an instance in-place.

- When the operation is naturally described by a verb, use the verb’s imperative for the mutating method and apply the “ed” or “ing” suffix to name its nonmutating counterpart. Mutating: `x.sort()`, `x.append(y)`. Nonmutating: `z = x.sorted()`, `z = x.appending(y)`

- Prefer to name the nonmutating variant using the verb’s past participle (usually appending “ed”).

```swift
/// Reverses `self` in-place.
mutating func reverse()

/// Returns a reversed copy of `self`.
func reversed() -> Self
...
x.reverse()
let y = x.reversed()
```

- When adding “ed” is not grammatical because the verb has a direct object, name the nonmutating variant using the verb’s present participle, by appending “ing.”

```swift
/// Strips all the newlines from `self`
mutating func stripNewlines()

/// Returns a copy of `self` with all the newlines stripped.
func strippingNewlines() -> String
...
s.stripNewlines()
let oneLine = t.strippingNewlines()
```

- When the operation is naturally described by a noun, use the noun for the nonmutating method and apply the “form” prefix to name its mutating counterpart. Nonmutating: `x = y.union(z)`, `j = c.successor(i)` Mutating: `y.formUnion(z)`, `c.formSuccessor(&i)`

- Uses of Boolean methods and properties should read as assertions about the receiver when the use is nonmutating, e.g. `x.isEmpty`, `line1.intersects(line2)`.

- Protocols that describe what something is should read as nouns (e.g. `Collection`).

- Protocols that describe a capability should be named using the suffixes able, ible, or ing (e.g. `Equatable`, `ProgressReporting`).

- The names of other types, properties, variables, and constants should read as nouns.

### Use Terminology Well

- Term of Art: noun - a word or phrase that has a precise, specialized meaning within a particular field or profession.

- Avoid obscure terms if a more common word conveys meaning just as well. Don’t say “epidermis” if “skin” will serve your purpose. Terms of art are an essential communication tool, but should only be used to capture crucial meaning that would otherwise be lost.

- Stick to the established meaning if you do use a term of art.

- Don’t surprise an expert: anyone already familiar with the term will be surprised and probably angered if we appear to have invented a new meaning for it.

- Don’t confuse a beginner: anyone trying to learn the term is likely to do a web search and find its traditional meaning.

- Avoid abbreviations. Abbreviations, especially non-standard ones, are effectively terms-of-art, because understanding depends on correctly translating them into their non-abbreviated forms.

- Embrace precedent. Don’t optimize terms for the total beginner at the expense of conformance to existing culture.

## Conventions

### General Conventions

- Document the complexity of any computed property that is not O(1). People often assume that property access involves no significant computation, because they have stored properties as a mental model. Be sure to alert them when that assumption may be violated.

- Prefer methods and properties to free functions. Free functions are used only in special cases.

- Follow case conventions. Names of types and protocols are `UpperCamelCase`. Everything else is `lowerCamelCase`.

- Methods can share a base name when they share the same basic meaning or when they operate in distinct domains.

- For example, the following is encouraged, since the methods do essentially the same things:

```swift
extension Shape {
  /// Returns `true` if `other` is within the area of `self`;
  /// otherwise, `false`.
  func contains(_ other: Point) -> Bool { ... }

  /// Returns `true` if `other` is entirely within the area of `self`;
  /// otherwise, `false`.
  func contains(_ other: Shape) -> Bool { ... }

  /// Returns `true` if `other` is within the area of `self`;
  /// otherwise, `false`.
  func contains(_ other: LineSegment) -> Bool { ... }
}
```

- And since geometric types and collections are separate domains, this is also fine in the same program:

```swift
extension Collection where Element : Equatable {
  /// Returns `true` if `self` contains an element equal to
  /// `sought`; otherwise, `false`.
  func contains(_ sought: Element) -> Bool { ... }
}
```

- However, these index methods have different semantics, and should have been named differently:

```swift
extension Database {
  /// Rebuilds the database's search index
  func index() { ... }

  /// Returns the `n`th row in the given table.
  func index(_ n: Int, inTable: TableID) -> TableRow { ... }
}
```

- Lastly, avoid “overloading on return type” because it causes ambiguities in the presence of type inference.

```swift
extension Box {
  /// Returns the `Int` stored in `self`, if any, and
  /// `nil` otherwise.
  func value() -> Int? { ... }

  /// Returns the `String` stored in `self`, if any, and
  /// `nil` otherwise.
  func value() -> String? { ... }
}
```

### Parameters

- Choose parameter names to serve documentation. Even though parameter names do not appear at a function or method’s point of use, they play an important explanatory role.

- Choose these names to make documentation easy to read. For example, these names make documentation read naturally:

```swift
/// Return an `Array` containing the elements of `self`
/// that satisfy `predicate`.
func filter(_ predicate: (Element) -> Bool) -> [Generator.Element]

/// Replace the given `subRange` of elements with `newElements`.
mutating func replaceRange(_ subRange: Range, with newElements: [E])
```

- These, however, make the documentation awkward and ungrammatical:

```swift
/// Return an `Array` containing the elements of `self`
/// that satisfy `includedInResult`.
func filter(_ includedInResult: (Element) -> Bool) -> [Generator.Element]

/// Replace the range of elements indicated by `r` with
/// the contents of `with`.
mutating func replaceRange(_ r: Range, with: [E])
```

- Take advantage of defaulted parameters when it simplifies common uses. Any parameter with a single commonly-used value is a candidate for a default.

- Default arguments improve readability by hiding irrelevant information. For example:

```swift
let order = lastName.compare(
  royalFamilyName, options: [], range: nil, locale: nil)
```

- can become the much simpler:

```swift
let order = lastName.compare(royalFamilyName)
```

- Default arguments are generally preferable to the use of method families, because they impose a lower cognitive burden on anyone trying to understand the API.

```swift
extension String {
  /// ...description...
  public func compare(
     _ other: String, options: CompareOptions = [],
     range: Range? = nil, locale: Locale? = nil
  ) -> Ordering
}
```

- The above may not be simple, but it is much simpler than:

```swift
extension String {
  /// ...description 1...
  public func compare(_ other: String) -> Ordering
  /// ...description 2...
  public func compare(_ other: String, options: CompareOptions) -> Ordering
  /// ...description 3...
  public func compare(
     _ other: String, options: CompareOptions, range: Range) -> Ordering
  /// ...description 4...
  public func compare(
     _ other: String, options: StringCompareOptions,
     range: Range, locale: Locale) -> Ordering
}
```

- Prefer to locate parameters with defaults toward the end of the parameter list. Parameters without defaults are usually more essential to the semantics of a method, and provide a stable initial pattern of use where methods are invoked.

- If your API will run in production, prefer `#fileID` over alternatives. `#fileID` saves space and protects developers’ privacy. Use `#filePath` in APIs that are never run by end users (such as test helpers and scripts) if the full path will simplify development workflows or be used for file I/O. Use `#file` to preserve source compatibility with Swift 5.2 or earlier.

### Argument Labels

- Omit all labels when arguments can’t be usefully distinguished, e.g. `min(number1, number2)`, `zip(sequence1, sequence2)`.

- In initializers that perform value preserving type conversions, omit the first argument label, e.g. `Int64(someUInt32)`

- When the first argument forms part of a prepositional phrase, give it an argument label. The argument label should normally begin at the preposition, e.g. `x.removeBoxes(havingLength: 12)`.

- An exception arises when the first two arguments represent parts of a single abstraction.

```swift
a.move(toX: b, y: c)
a.fade(fromRed: b, green: c, blue: d)
```

- In such cases, begin the argument label after the preposition, to keep the abstraction clear.

```swift
a.moveTo(x: b, y: c)
a.fadeFrom(red: b, green: c, blue: d)
```

- Otherwise, if the first argument forms part of a grammatical phrase, omit its label, appending any preceding words to the base name, e.g. `x.addSubview(y)`

- This guideline implies that if the first argument doesn’t form part of a grammatical phrase, it should have a label.

```swift
view.dismiss(animated: false)
let text = words.split(maxSplits: 12)
let studentsByName = students.sorted(isOrderedBefore: Student.namePrecedes)
```

- Note that it’s important that the phrase convey the correct meaning. The following would be grammatical but would express the wrong thing.

```swift
view.dismiss(false)   Don't dismiss? Dismiss a Bool?
words.split(12)       Split the number 12?
```

- Label all other arguments.

## Special Instructions

- Label tuple members and name closure parameters where they appear in your API.

- These names have explanatory power, can be referenced from documentation comments, and provide expressive access to tuple members.

```swift
/// Ensure that we hold uniquely-referenced storage for at least
/// `requestedCapacity` elements.
///
/// If more storage is needed, `allocate` is called with
/// `byteCount` equal to the number of maximally-aligned
/// bytes to allocate.
///
/// - Returns:
///   - reallocated: `true` if a new block of memory
///     was allocated; otherwise, `false`.
///   - capacityChanged: `true` if `capacity` was updated;
///     otherwise, `false`.
mutating func ensureUniqueStorage(
  minimumCapacity requestedCapacity: Int,
  allocate: (_ byteCount: Int) -> UnsafePointer<Void>
) -> (reallocated: Bool, capacityChanged: Bool)
```

- Names used for closure parameters should be chosen like parameter names for top-level functions. Labels for closure arguments that appear at the call site are not supported.

- Take extra care with unconstrained polymorphism (e.g. Any, AnyObject, and unconstrained generic parameters) to avoid ambiguities in overload sets.
